this lecture is about a feedback in text
little table so in this lecture we are
going to continue the discussion of text
or retrieval methods in particular we're
going to talk about the feedback impacts
retrieval this is a diagram that shows
the retrieval process we can see the
user would type in a query and then the
query would be send it to a retrieval
engine or search engine and the engine
will return results these results would
be shown to the user now after the user
has seen these results the user can
actually make judgment so for example
the user had say well this is good and
this document is not very useful this is
good again etc now this is called a
relevance judgment or relevance feedback
because we got some feedback information
from the user based on the judgments and
this can be very useful to the system
learn what exactly is interesting to the
user so the feedback module would then
take this as input and also use the
document collection to try to improve
ranking typically it would be more
updating the query so the system can now
rank the results more accurately for the
user so this is what relevance feedback
the feedback is based on relevance
judgments made by the users now these
judgments are reliable but users
generally don't want to make extra
effort unless they have to
so the downside is that it involves some
extra effort by the user there is
another form of feedback called a pseudo
relevance feedback or blind feedback
also called automatic feedback in this
case you can see once the user has
gotten it out or in fact we don't have
to involve users so you can see there is
no user involved here and we simply
assume that the top-ranked documents to
be relevant
let's say we have soon know top ten as
well
and then we will then use these assumed
documents to learn and to improve the
query now you might wonder how could
this help if we simply assume the top
rank that means if a random well you can
imagine these top ranked the documents
are actually similar to relevant
documents even if they are non-random
they look like relevant documents so
it's possible to learn some related
terms to the query from this set in fact
that you may recall that we talked about
the using language model to analyze
water association to learn related words
to the word computer right and then what
we did is the first to use computer to
retrieve all the documents that the
contain computer so imagine now the
query here is a computer right and then
the result will be those documents that
contain computer and what we can do then
is to take up the top end results they
can match computer very well and we're
going to count the terms in this set and
then welcome to then use the background
damage model to choose the terms that
are frequent in this set but not
frequent in the whole collection so if
we make a contrast between these two
what we can find is that we will learn
some related terms to the word computer
as we have seen before and these we
related words can then be added to the
original query to expand the query and
this would help us bring documents that
don't necessarily match computer but
match other was like a program and
software so this is the effective for
improving the search is that but of
course pseudo elements in fact is
completely unreliable we have two
arbitrary set of cutoff so there's also
something in between called implicit
feedback in this case what we do is we
do involve users but we don't have to
have
users who make judgments instead over
the observe how the user interacts with
searching without so in this case we're
going to look at the crystals so the
user clicked on this one and the user
view to this one and the user skipper to
this one and then use a view this one
again now this also is a cruel about
whether the document is useful to the
user and we can even assume that we're
going to use only the snippet here in
the stocking the text that's actually
seen by the user instead of the actual
document of this angel and in the link
they are meditating website may be
broken but now it doesn't matter if the
user tried to fetch this document
because of the displayed text we can
assume these display the text is
probably relevant is interesting to use
up so we have learned from such
information and this is called invisibly
feedback and we can again use the
information to update the query this is
a very important technique and used in
modern search engines you know think
about the Kobo and being and they can
collect a lot of user activities why
they are serving us I assume they would
observe what document we click on what
documents escaped and this information
is very valuable and they can use this
to improve the search engine so to
summarize we talked about the three
kinds of feedback here relevance
feedback where the user makes explicit
judgments it takes some new effort but
the judgment the information is reliable
we talked about the pseudo feedback
where we simply assume top-ranked
machine stupid random we don't have to
involve the user therefore we could do
that actually before we return the
results to the user and the third is in
peaceful feedback where we use clicks
rules where we don't we involve users
but the user doesn't have to make
explicit the default make catchment
you
[Music]